## Introduction:
In the U.S., energy generation and usage is monitored and controlled by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission *(FERC)*. FERC has regional subsidiaries known as Independent System Operators *(ISO)* or Regional Transmission Organization *(RTO)*. These ISOs and RTOs have recently started providing their data and statistics in real time located on their respective website to help provide energy information to the public in an attempt to find new ways to innovate and create value-added services.

Several of these ISO/RTOs have constructed an Application Programming Interface *(API)* that allows this data to be collected via use of computer software without human intervention. This, theoretically, will make it feasible to automate the collection of data from one or multiple data sources. This data can consist of anything from power consumption, power generation, renewable energy production, and much more.

## Purpose:
The purpose of ***PGData*** is to collect this information from available ISOs and RTOs and collectively display it in one central location for educational use within the UA Little Rock Systems Engineering Department (SYEN). Currently the data available differs in terms of format and value from one source to another. This has proven to be a challenging method of aiding in the educational value as the time it takes to sort, explain, or even recalculate the data to assist in lectures or demonstrations is often considered wasteful or inefficient. By collecting this data and manipulating the information in such a way that it is consistent from source to source, it can be provided in a central location with an easy to use interface that will be intuitive and educational.

## Overview:
***PGData*** will be made available as a website using a typical LAMP Stack *(Linux Apache MySql PHP)*. The data will be collected programmatically using scripts written in JavaScript, executed server side using Node.JS, and linked to the LAMP stack to display in a combined format. By use of an abstraction layer, the data will be manipulated to a set standard before being injected into the database. The frontend or UI of the site will be generated by using JavaScript scripts to draw graphs and charts populated from the database.

## Data Collection:
Data collection is performed using Node.js, a utility that allows JavaScript scripts to be ran on a server. JavaScript is usually combined with HTML and CSS to provide client side scripting and webapps through the client’s web browser. With the use of Node.js and additional Node modules, ***PGData*** can collect data on the server in set increments instead of when a client is connected to take the load off of the client. Node.js allows ***PGData*** to collect the data through the faster and lighter JavaScript compared to alternatives such as python or Java. JavaScript also seems to be the current standard when creating web applications that can be scaled implemented across several platforms.
